Ah/add shmi project (#389)
nhsengland/datascience: docs/mres/shmi_classification.md

---
title: "Using alternative modelling methods and more granular diagnosis encoding for the Summary Hospital-level Mortality Indicator (SHMI)"
summary: "The Summary Hospital Mortality Indicator (SHIMI) does not score well when modelling some diagnosis groups despite using ROC AUC score which is forgiving when class imbalance is high. This study aimed to explore the effect on scores of replacing the Charlson index score with up to 260 one hot encoded diagnosis features as well as testing lasso regression and XGboost instead of the current SHMI ridge regression models. It also used PR AUC score instead of ROC AUC score."
tags: ['PRIMARY CARE', 'CLASSIFICATION','MODELLING', 'MACHINE LEARNING','PYTHON', 'R', 'SQL', 'COMPLETE']
---

> 

Reviewer: are you able to add a visual abstract? or an image of some sort

> *This project was completed by Adam Hollings, Principal Data Scientist, in the Central Data Science Team, as part of the Data Science MRes at the University of Leeds*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*This project was completed by Adam Hollings, Principal Data Scientist, in the Data Science & Applied AI Team, as part of the Data Science MRes at the University of Leeds*
```

## Objectives 
SHMI does not score well when modelling some diagnosis groups despite using ROC AUC score which is forgiving when class imbalance is high. This study aimed to explore the effect on scores of replacing the Charlson index score with up to 260 one hot encoded diagnosis features as well as testing lasso regression and XGboost instead of the current SHMI ridge regression models. It also used PR AUC score instead of ROC AUC score.
## Design 
We examined three groups PR AUC and found the more granular approach had better performance: Septicemia and Shock (SHMI 0.3, CCS groups 0.6, Elixhauser groups 0.4, Charlson groups 0.4), HIV (SHMI 0.1, CCS groups 0.4, Elixhauser groups 0.1, Charlson groups 0.1), Alcohol Related Liver Disease  (SHMI 0.2, CCS groups 0.6, Elixhauser groups 0.4, Charlson groups 0.3).
##Setting 
1st April 2017 and 30th April 2020 England, United Kingdom.
## Participants 
709 sites across 122 NHS trusts across England were used for this study 

> ## Results 

Reviewer: just double checking - i'm guessing the answer is yes, but all of these results are ok to be public?
